---
layout: default
published: true
title: " About me "
permalink: "julian/about-me/"
---

### How it all began

My fascination for computers began in 1984 when my father bought his
first PC - a Schneider Joyce. At first I only played the game Batman,
but soon I discovered the word processing and database programs from my
father.

> Play, boy!

### It networks!

Ten years later - when I was 14 years old - the first multiplayer games
were released. My friends and I played them together, so we had to
master networking from the DOS command line with no automatic
installation wizards. At the same time the World Wide Web (WWW which is
not the same as the internet) was invented. My chinese friend Han-Bao
and I visited the University Library almost every day to surf the
internet and play simple command line multiplayer games like MUDs (Multi
User Dungeons) or Backgammon.

> I like having a machine called 'elvis' on the network because that
> way, I can say 'ping elvis' and have it come back with 'elvis is
> alive'. (Carl Shipley)

### One year in Colombia

In 1996 me and my family moved to Bogotá Colombia. I went to an
international high school there for one year. What I liked most in
Bogotá were the Ciclovia (a day when all cars are banned from certain
streets), my half russian friend Danuta, with whom I spend a lot of time
and cycled at the Ciclovia, and our 10 Megabit flatrate internet
connection.

> And you think coffee is our biggest export?

### Computational linguistics and Bioinformatics

Back in Heidelberg (Germany) I finished my high school degree (the
german Abitur) and began studying Bioinformatics in Tübingen. I also
became interested in computational linguistics during my time at the
university. Because I was unsure whether I wanted to finish my studies
in Bioinformatics I inserted an apprenticeship as an "IT - System
Merchant" (IT-Systemkaufmann). At the time of this writing (May 2005)
I'm finishing my second year out of three. Because of my previous
knowledge in Informatics I skipped the first year. So there is one more
year for me to decide what to do after my apprenticeship.

> Where would we be without rhetorical questions?